# pyMEP
The pyMEP (Python Molecular Electrostatic Potential) is a Python library designed for the calculation and visualization of Molecular Electrostatic Potentials (MEP).

## Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following installed on your system:
- [Python 3.8+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [Conda Package Manager](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) (Miniconda or Anaconda)
- (Optional) Git - for cloning the repository

## Installation 

### Step 1: Clone the Repository
Use Git to clone the repository to your local machine:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/anchieta-oliveira/pyMEP
```
### Step 2: Create a virtual environment dedicated to pyMEP
Navigate to the cloned Git folder:
```bash
cd pyMEP
```
Create a new Conda environment using the provided requirements.yml file:
```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```
### Step 3: Then install the package
Optionally, install install the package
```bash
python -m pip install -e .
```

## Usage Guide 

### Step 1: Activate the pyMEP dedicated environment:
```bash
conda activate pyMEP
```
### Step 2: Call pyMEP

Displaying pyMEP usage options:
```bash
python3.12 path/to/main.py --help
```

Uso simples:
```bash
python3.12  path/to/main.py -pdb to_pdb.pdb -psf to_psf.psf -o mep.cube
```

Arguments:
-  `-h`, `--help`            show this help message and exit
-  `-ff` FORCE_FIELD, `--force_field` FORCE_FIELD
                        Force field file used for calculations (e.g., CHARMM, AMBER).
-  `-mop` MOPAC_FILE, `--mopac_file` MOPAC_FILE
                        MOPAC output file.
-  `-orca` ORCA_FILE, `--orca_file` ORCA_FILE
                        ORCA output file.
-  `-xtb` XTB_FILE_CHARGE, `--xtb_file_charge` XTB_FILE_CHARGE
                        XTB output charge file for charge.
-  `-psf` PSF_FILE, `--psf_file` PSF_FILE
                        System topology file (PSF), typically generated by software like VMD or CHARMM.
-  `-chg_file` CHARGE_FILE, `--charge_file` CHARGE_FILE
                        Path to the file containing charge information.
-  `-gpu`, `--gpu`           Enable GPU acceleration if available.
-  `-gpu_id` GPU_ID, `--gpu_id` GPU_ID
                        Specify the GPU ID to use (default: all gpus).
-  `-o` OUTPUT, `--output` OUTPUT
                        Path to the output file or directory where results will be saved.
-  `-cutoff` CUTOFF, `--cutoff` CUTOFF
                        Path to the output file or directory where results will be saved.
-  `-gs` GRID_SPACING, `--grid_spacing` GRID_SPACING
                        Grid spacing value to be used in calculations (default: 1).
-  `-m` MARGIN, `--margin` MARGIN
                        Margin value to be used in calculations (default: 0.3).
-  `-pdb` PDB_FILE, `--pdb_file` PDB_FILE
                        PDB file.
-  `-xyz` XYZ_FILE, `--xyz_file` XYZ_FILE
                        XYZ file.